	Introduction:
	Residential Lease Agreement
This document is used to rent a residential dwelling unit to an individual tenant or tenants for a certain period of time.  The document sets out the terms and conditions which the landlord and tenant(s) have agreed to regarding the rental of the premises.  This document should not be used to enter into a commercial lease (a lease where the tenant is going to use the leased premises for business reasons and not as his residence).   
Many states require that the Tenant make a pre-move-in inspection of the premises in order to establish a baseline as to the condition of the premises.  Even if your state does not require such an inspection, it is recommended that the Tenant do so in order to protect both the Tenant and Landlord’s rights.  The Tenant should write down any defects or other issues regarding the condition of the premises, sign this writing, and have the Landlord sign the writing as well.  Each party should maintain a copy of this document. 
It is important to understand that each state, and often many lower-level governments, have many specific laws regarding the rental of residential dwelling units.  Most of these laws are designed to prevent dishonest landlords from taking advantage of tenants.  In drafting this document, it will be necessary to check the laws of your state and/or consult with an attorney to ensure that you are in compliance with the law.  Some areas of law that differ include, but are not limited to, the following:  late fees, rent increase notices, returned check fees, security deposit limits, security deposit interest, security deposit bank account requirements, deadlines for returning security deposits, inspection notifications, allowable reasons for entry by the Landlord into the rented premises, the notice required for the Landlord to enter the rented premises, and disclosure statements of the existence of certain conditions present on the premises.  This is not an exhaustive list of the areas in which state and local law differs with respect to residential leases, and it is highly recommended that you have an attorney review your document.
Federal law also requires that you make certain disclosures about the possible presence of lead-based paint in dwelling units that were manufactured prior to 1978.  These requirements can be found at the following web address:  http://www.hud.gov/offices/lead/enforcement/disclosure.cfm.  In addition to disclosing information known by the Landlord regarding lead-based paint, the landlord must provide tenants with a copy of a pamphlet regarding the dangers of lead-based paint.  The pamphlet can be accessed via the website mentioned above. 

 
	Residential Lease Agreement
This Residential Lease Agreement (“Lease”) is entered into this 9th day of July 2024 by and between NABS LLC of 16837 NE 121st ST, Redmond, WA 98052 ("Landlord") and Salvador Hernandez & Martha Hernandez, a married couple ("Tenants") of 7601 Traditions Ave NE, Lacey, WA, 98516. 
Landlord hereby leases to Tenant and Tenant hereby rents from Landlord the premises located at 11308 171st PL NE, Redmond, WA 98052 ("Premises") to be used as a residential dwelling unit in accordance with the provisions of this Lease.  In consideration of the obligations contained herein and other good and valuable consideration the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, Landlord and Tenant agree to the following:
1.	Term:  The term of the Lease will commence on August 1, 2024 ("Start Date") and unless sooner terminated by operation of law or by operation of the terms of this Lease will continue for a period of 12 months, to end on July 31, 2025 (“Term”).
2.	Rent:  Tenant shall pay to Landlord the sum of $4,700.00 per month, to be paid in advance on the first day of each calendar month during the Term.  Such rental payments must be paid in the following manner:  Tenant shall deliver the rental payments via direct deposit to the Landlord’s bank account. Landlord bank account and transfer instructions will be furnished at the time of signing. 
3.	Personal Property:  The rental of the Premises shall also include the rental of the following personal property:  the whole house, all appliances (stove, refrigerator, washer, dryer, dishwasher, garbage disposal), TV in one guest bedroom upstairs except the storage area in basement. The basement will be locked and hold the landlord’s personal property. The basement will be accessed by the tenant on a frequent basis and will require a three-day prior notice to the tenant.
4.	Use of Residence:  The Residence is to be used only as a private residence for the Tenant and their two children.  The tenant shall conduct himself in a manner that does not unreasonably disturb the neighborhood or adjacent unit dwellers or cause any breach of the peace or violate any of Landlord's Rules or Regulations referenced in this Lease.  Occupancy by guests for more than five days without Landlord's prior written consent is prohibited.
5.	Late Fees:  In the event Tenant fails to make rental payments within three (3) days of the date specified in Paragraph 2, Tenant will be liable for a late fee of $20.00 for each day such payment is late, not to exceed $500.00.  Landlord does not waive his right to insist upon payment of rent in full on its due date.
6.	Insufficient Funds:  Tenant agrees to pay a fee of $100.00 for every check Tenant provides to Landlord that is returned to Landlord due to a lack of sufficient funds.
7.	Security Deposit:  Upon signing this Lease, Tenant shall pay to Landlord the amount of $8,500.00 as a security deposit.  Within 5 days after the termination of this Lease and any extensions thereof, the surrender of the Premises by the Tenant, and the provision by the Tenant to the Landlord of a forwarding address, Landlord will return the security deposit in full or give Tenant an itemized written statement of the reasons for, and the dollar amount of, any of the security deposit retained by Landlord, along with a check for any balance. 
8.	Utilities:  Tenant is responsible for paying all utilities during the Term of the Lease other than the following which will be paid by Landlord.
9.	Condition of Premises:  Tenant has examined the Premises, including the grounds and all buildings and improvements, and agrees that they are in good order and in a safe, clean, and tenantable condition. 
10.	Assignment and Subleasing:  No assignments or subleases may be made by Tenant without prior written consent of the Landlord.
11.	Tenant’s Responsibilities:
(a)	Tenant will maintain the Premises in safe, clean, and sanitary order and shall return the Premises to Landlord at the termination of this Lease or any extension thereof in the same condition except for ordinary wear and tear.
(b)	Tenant will immediately notify Landlord of any dangerous conditions or defects in and about the Premises of which Tenant becomes aware.
(c)	Tenant has examined the Premises and has found them to be in safe, clean, and sanitary order.
12.	Quiet Enjoyment:  Landlord covenants that upon Tenant paying rent and observing and performing all of the covenants, terms, and conditions of this Lease, Tenant may peaceably and quietly enjoy the Premises.
13.	Tenant Repairs and Alterations:
(a)	Except as provided by law or authorized by the prior written consent of Landlord, Tenant will not make any repairs or alterations to the Premises.
(b)	If any alterations or improvements are made on or to the Premises, except for fixtures and personal property which can be removed without damage to the Premises, such alterations or improvements will become property of the Landlord upon the expiration of this Lease and any extensions thereof.  
14.	Pets:
(a)	No pets will be kept on the Premises for any period of time except properly trained dogs needed by blind, deaf, or disabled persons, except for the following:  small dog.
15.	Landlord’s Right to Access:
(a)	Landlord or his agents may enter the Premises in the event of an emergency, to make repairs or improvements, or to show the Premises to prospective tenants.  Landlord may also enter the Premises to conduct inspections to check for safety or maintenance problems.  Except in the case of an emergency, Tenant's abandonment of the Premises, or court order, Landlord shall give Tenant three days’ notice prior to Landlord's entry onto the Premises.
16.	Extended Absences by Tenant:
(a)	Tenant will notify Landlord in advance if Tenant will be away from the Premises for seven or more consecutive days.  During such absence, Landlord may enter the Premises at times reasonably necessary to maintain the property and inspect for needed repairs.
17.	Possession of the Premises:
(a)	If Tenant fails to take possession of the Premises after signing this Lease, Tenant is still responsible for paying rent and complying with all other terms of this Lease.
(b)	If Landlord is unable to deliver possession of the Premises to Tenant for any reason not within the Landlord’s control, Tenant will have the right to terminate this Lease upon proper notice as required by law. In such event, Landlord’s liability to Tenant is limited to the return of all sums previously paid by Tenant to Landlord.
18.	Abandonment:  If Tenant abandons the Premises during the Term of the Lease and rent is not current, Tenant agrees Landlord may retake possession of the Premises and of any personal property left in the abandoned Premises.  If Landlord chooses to re-let the Premises upon default or abandonment by Tenant, Tenant agrees to be liable for the difference between any rent collected under the reletting of the Premises and the amount the Tenant would have been liable for as rent under this Lease.   
19.	Surrender of Premises:  At the end of this Lease, Tenant agrees to surrender the Premises to Landlord in as good condition as they were at the beginning of the Lease, reasonable use and wear excepted.
20.	Default and Termination:  If Tenant fails to comply with any of the provisions of this Lease, except non-payment of rent, the Lease may be terminated by the Landlord if the non-compliance is not corrected within seven days after delivery of a written notice to the Tenant specifying the non-compliance and indicating the intention of terminating this Lease if the correction is not made.  Tenant agrees that if he does not pay the rent when due and fails to pay the rent within three days (excluding weekends and holidays) after receipt of Landlord's written demand for payment or possession of the Premises, Landlord may terminate the Lease.  Such termination shall not discharge any obligation of Tenant's to pay for rent and damages accrued under the Lease.
21.	Indemnification:  Tenant agrees to pay all costs of Landlord's defense, and to indemnify and hold Landlord harmless from and against any and all claims, demands, actions, and judgments of any nature and from damages of all types resulting from loss of life, bodily or personal injury or property damage arising, directly or indirectly, out of or from any occurrence in or on the Premises occasioned through the use or occupancy of the Premises, or by any act or omission of Tenant or Tenant's agents, family, contractors, invitees, or licensees in or at the Premises or any part thereof, or in the common areas thereof.  Tenant acknowledges and agrees that the Landlord is not responsible or liable for loss or theft of, or damage to, any personal property or effects.  Tenant acknowledges and agrees that the Landlord is not an insurer against such losses and expressly releases Landlord from any claim, loss, or liability arising out of or related to such losses.  Tenants are encouraged to obtain renter's insurance to protect against these losses.
22.	Liens:  Tenant shall not have the right or authority to encumber the Premises or to permit any person to claim or assert any lien for the improvement or repair of the Premises made by Tenant.  All such liens or encumbrances are hereby expressly prohibited.  Tenant shall notify all parties performing work on the Premises at Tenant’s request that the Lease does not allow any liens to attach to Landlord’s interest.
23.	Authority to Receive Legal Papers:
(a)	The Landlord, any person managing the Premises, and any other person designated by the Landlord are authorized to accept service of process and receive other notices and demands, which may be delivered to the following address: 16837 NE 121st St, Redmond, WA 98052.
24.	No Other Representations:  Tenant acknowledges and agrees that Landlord has not made and is not making any representations or warranties other than those contained in this Lease.  This Lease fully and completely expresses all agreements and understandings between Landlord and Tenant.
25.	Lead Warning Statement:  Housing built before 1978 may contain lead-based paint. Lead from paint, paint chips, and dust can pose health hazards if not managed properly. Lead exposure is especially harmful to young children and pregnant women. Before renting pre-1978 housing, lessors must disclose the presence of known lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards in the dwelling. Tenants must also receive a federally approved pamphlet on lead poisoning prevention.
Landlord's Disclosure (initial)
_____(a) Presence of lead-based paint or lead-based paint hazards (check (i) or (ii) below):
 
(i)____Known lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards are present in the housing (explain).
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
 (ii)____Landlord has no knowledge of lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards in the housing.
_____(b) Records and reports available to the lessor (check (i) or (ii) below): 
 
(i)____Landlord has provided the Tenant with all available records and reports pertaining to lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards in the housing (list documents below).
 
(ii)____Landlord has no reports or records pertaining to lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards in the housing.
Tenant's Acknowledgment (initial)
_____(c) Tenant has received copies of all information listed above.
_____(d) Tenant has received the pamphlet Protect Your Family From Lead in Your Home.

  
Signed this date: 	 	 	Landlord:	 
 	 	 	 	 
 	 	 	Tenant: 	
			Tenant:	







 
Instructions for Use:  Residential Lease Agreement
The Landlord and Tenant should sign and date the Lease and obtain a copy for their records.  You should check your state’s laws to determine if the Lease needs to be recorded with any state agency, though in most cases you will not need to.  A copy of any Landlord Rules and Regulations that are incorporated by reference into the Lease should be attached to the Lease. 
If the Premises were built prior to 1978, Federal law requires that you provide a warning to the Tenant about lead-based paint in the form of an EPA-approved pamphlet.  In addition, the Landlord must disclose any known information about lead-based paint on the Premises.  A copy of the pamphlet and more information can be accessed at the following web site:  http://www.hud.gov/offices/lead/enforcement/disclosure.cfm.  You should consult your state law or a local attorney to determine if any other disclosures are required.
